HOW TO OVERCOME ART BLOCK / MAKE ARTBLOCK WORK FOR YOU / Why you're not getting any art done

You most likely clicked on this video because you're stuck somewhere, and you're currently either can't find inspiration for your art or need motivation to actually make your ideas come true.
Either way, you're most likely stuck at the moment. So here are some tips to overcome this problem:  

First, let me introduce you to this triangle. On each of it's tips, there is one value which you need to do the art that you want to do. 
This first one is inspiration, the second is motivation and the third one, is time. All three are equally important to create what you want to create. Buuuut always having all three would be way too easy, right?
Most times, you're lacking one of them and you're stuck with a combination of the other two. 

In the first part of this video, i'm going to focus on the difficulties with getting started. So if you need some motivation to power through and finish a project, stick around or skip to this timestamp right here for some bonus tips!

But back to the triangle, let me explain:

Let's say you have the greatest inspiration, an awesome idea and the time to fulfill your dream but absolutely no motivation to actually do it. This could be because you're scared of not creating the perfect masterpiece, if failing on your first try or you're already halfway through and you don't like where things are going.
And you only know one thing for sure: This situation sucks. So here's what you could possibly do about it: 
1. Power through. Dedicate just a tiny amount of time on doing the thing. this could be 5 mins, 2 mins, even 10 seconds. Even opening your drawing program or getting your pencils out is enough. Now that you've come this far, you might as well stay there and keep going.
See what you did there? Tricked yourself into doing the thing. You got this. 
2. Regroup and attack. This strategy is best for when you've already started a project but can't find any motivation to finish it. Since you do have the time, take a step back and think of why you started. Remember your great idea? Nice. Now think about what changed along the way and why you stopped doing the thing. 
Don't know how to fix a minor detail? Research it, find the solution and boom, you even learned something new. Look at you, emerging stronger than ever. 
Don't like the overall vibe of your drawing? Slap a new layer on, set the opacity to low and change it. You've just mastered colour theory.
3. Show a friend. Getting a second opinion is great, because sometimes you just need a little external push. Maybe the person you're telling about your great idea can even help you make it even more awesome? You never know, so go tell them. 
Also, there are some people who are more likely to follow through on something if they tell another person about it. This is a nice way to peer-pressure yourself into getting the motivation you need. 

Let's move on to the second constellation: You've got motivation, time but no inspiration. This one's maybe the easiest one:
1. Get inspiration. There are many ways to do so. You could go for a walk, look into nature for inspiration, or let the algorithm of your choice handle the problem. You already know how to use the internet, i'm not your mom, so let's move on:
2. Just wish for the best. Get out a new sheet of paper, a blanc canvas or a fresh default cube straight out of the factory and hope that something will happen. Maybe it will. maybe it won't. Whatever happens next, is a great success. 

Ok, on to combination #3: You've got inspiration and the motivation to do something, but life is busy right now and you can't find any time to do your thing. This is ok, happens all the time. But fret not, dear friend, for there is a tiny light on the horizon:
1. Scale down your goals and break them into maneageable pieces. What does this mean? Let me explain. You've probaly got this great idea for a full feature film or your one in a lifetime magnus opus, but you got like 10 mins per day which you can actually dedicate to working on this goal. 
Find smaller ways to capture your ideas. For myself, i discovered that bringing along a notebook really helps to just scribble down ideas or doodle in the bus or while your rice is cooking. 
You may ask, how does this help with my magnum opus? Maybe you could use this way for you to design the characters for your new webcomic or do the concept art for your newest animation project. And with all this preparation done, you can focus on the essence of your idea when you can dedicate the time to it. 
2. Get people to help you. As for the feature film example, nobody has ever done one completely alone. If i'm wrong, let me know in the comments, but i really doubt it. Collaborating with people is a great way to split the workload between you guys and the best part, everybody can show their personal strengths! 
Plus, as i said before, other people provide a nice amount of pressure to your concept art done because your friend can't wait to start building the 3D assets. Just make sure they provide a good pressure and feel free to opt out if it gets too much, if the whole thing gets too overwhelming. 

Ok, so these are my tips for compensating if you lack time, motivation or inspiration. But that's not everything, here are some more tips to find motivation when you've gotten started already and just lost it on the way:
1. Become aware that there is only so much you can force yourself to do. If you really can't find a way to keep going, take a step back and maybe search for the next big idea. There's no shame in that. 
2. BUT wouldn't it be great if you COULD do it anyway? Maybe you just need to start a side project to breathe some fresh air and everyhting will fall into place after a break. That's ok, start another project you will never finish. 
3. Ok, sorry, i forgot this was supposed to be inspirational. This might be a hot take, but some side projects are just not meant to get finished. There just is no point in doing so. 
But you need to mentally shift from really wanting to finish everything to being ok with some things just staying halfassed doodles. 
