Hi guys, welcome back to your favorite Blender channel! This time, we will create a human basemesh from scratch. And all you need is just 1 default cube. You can use the one you already have. 
Before we start: The finished model will be available to download from gumroad, i'll put the link into the description. The download is free, you can just enter a 0 into the price field. But if you like what i'm doing here, your tip could be the first money i ever earned with modeling in blender. 
Ok, let's get started now.  
This first part is optional, but i like to have a little bit of reference before starting a new project. here i'm using 3 blocks to create the approximate height i want the character to be. 
If you want to follow along, you can duplicate the default cube with shift D and stack it next to the origin point so it doesn't get in the way. 
I also like to do some annotations to better understand the anatomy. Since this is a really stylized character, their head, torso and legs will be equally big. 
If you're aiming for another style, feel free to look up references online and model accordingly. 
With all this set up, let's start with modeling the head. If you still have the default cube available, move it up by pressing G - or generate a new cube with Shift A. I also like to work with perspectives here because it makes modeling along a specific axis a lot easier. 
If you have a numberpad available you can press 1 to snap into front view alont the y axis, 3 for sideview along x, or 7 for a top view along y. If you don't have a numpad, you can click on the axis points in this little gimbal here.
I'm trying to make this character symmetrical, so i'm going to turn on symmetry along X. You don't need to do this, but in my opinion it makes modeling easier and saves some time.
Subdivide the cube with control and 2 . This shortcut will add a subdivision modifier with a 2 subdivisions. You can tweak these values here, but for now, let's move on. 
But even after adding the modifier to the mesh, when we switch into edit mode, we still only have the handles of the default cube to deform this subdivided cube. 

So, we are going to subdivide this mesh even further. You can do it the way i did here with pressing control + R + 2 for each axis and moving the edges until we have something that resembles a ball or a head.
Alternatively you can use the smart way and simply move to the modifier tab, set the viewport value to 1 or 2, click apply and you have a subdivided head!

Ok, we already have a head, now we just need the rest of the body. Before we can begin to extrude it from the neck, i recommend to use a mirror modifier so that we only have to work on one side and the other will simply be mirrored.
To do this, make sure you have some vertices along the middle where we want the mirroring to happen. You will see why in a second. 
Next, mark everything on one side, i like to delete the left, and press x to open up the delete interface. Choose vertices and you should be left with half of the model from before.
If you're not, undo the last step with control + z and add a line of vertices down the middle with control r.
then, repeat marking one side and delete it again by pressing x. Next, go into the modifier tab, open up the modifier overview and choose mirror modifier. If you don't see the full model now, make sure you choose the right axis. For me, this is the x axis, but you might need to switch this up, depending on the view you started with.
ok, great! Now we can start building the neck. Find the vertices from where the neck will come, in my case it is only this one, mark all of them and press i to inset the face. This will have a similar effect to extruding, which we will do now. 
Switch to front view with 1 on the numpad and with the faces still selected, press G to move them downwards to where you would like your neck to end. 
From here on, you can press E to extrude faces and at this point, you have all the skills needed to finish this tutorial. I've listed them on the screen, feel free to pause and take a screenshot if you need it.
The rest of this video will be for you to follow along, you can see the keys i pressed on the bottom right. 



Ok, you made it to the end, that's it for today! I hope you enjoyed this video - if you did, give it a thumbs up and let me know in the comments what you want to see next.



