Hello everyone, let me introduce you to my newest project: 
Crafting a korra cosplay! 
I normally post digital art related stuff, but my friend and I are going to a convention in June so might as well film myself when creating the cosplay. 
Ok, so lets go over with what we're starting with:
Fake fur in white and brown plush for the apron thing, white stretchy trim and a light blue shirt and dark blue jogging pants. And since i will be sewing everything by hand, we're gonna need thread in various colours, needles and scissors.
I got the base clothes i just mentioned from a thrift shop. All other things, like the fabric for her apron thingy, were ordered online. I also cut up an old shirt to make her bracers, which i forgot to show here.

Ok, let's get started with her top: 
First, i cut off the arms of the shirt and used one of the arms to make her upper arm wrap. I also painted on the white triangles with some fabric dye i had laying around. Then, i sewed the whole thing a little tighter to keep it from sliding off my tiny biceps. I really need to work out more to get on Korra level biceps.  
Then, i cut up the dark blue shirt and sewed the bracers. I simply cut some rectangles that wrap around my arm and sewed them shut so they won't slide off. I decorated them with the white trim, to look more closely to the ones Korra is wearing.
With all arm things done, it's time to focus on the top itself. The base looked okay-ish, but i really wanted to add the white trim along the arm holes and the neck. I struggled a little with sewing those on, because the shirt AND the trim are stretchy, which is a terrible combination to sew by hand. But, nevertheless, i somehow managed to get it done. 

So, we got our shirt done. We got things for our arms. We already have her season 3 haircut. Well, I can't speak for you, but I at least do. 
The pants also look decent. We just need to craft the fur hip decoration. 
When i inspected pictures of Korra more closely, i noticed that her apron also includes a dark blue flap in the front. No problem for me, since i had a little left over from sewing the arm guards. 
To create the apron, i draped the fabric onto the floor and eyeballed her approximate apron shape. I put in some pins to mark the edges, folded the fabric in half and cut along my marks. After this, i measured out the width of the fur trim that i wanted to add. 
When i had all those pieces, i simply sewed them together - which took a loooooong time, but you learn to be patient when you don't have a sewing machine. Also, sewing is really calming and meditative, you should try it!
With this done, i cut out the blue front flap and attached some strategically placed velcro patches to the fake fur and the blue flap. 

And with this, you are done! I still need to find a solution for the shoe situation, because i sure am not going to wear fur boots in the summer. I might also opt for a shorter pair of pants. 
But now, it is time for the grand reveal:
