Hello dear friend, let's talk about the moon once again. Or more precisely the moonlander, in my opinion the most wonderful ergonomic keyboard ever made.
A few months ago i made a video about this fancy new keyboard i got and people had some questions, so let's give them answers!

- Tips about certain layout preferences & positioning
First of all:
Thanks to everyone who offered their insight and personal tips on how to best use the space and all the keys you are given! Also, since some comments called me out for positioning the keyboard wayyyy too far away from me, your attention to detail is unmatched, thank you very much, you really deserve a cookie and a kiss on the forehead. But to clear things up: This is how the keyboard normally stays on my desk, and this is how i positioned it for filming the last video. Writing like this IS indeed not really comfortable, and you may rest assured, no wrists were harmed in the process.

- Do i use a Mouse or a trackpad? 
I personally use a mouse for everyday business. I really understand the want for a trackpad or even a trackball if you're feeling old school, so you can have a stationary device between the two halves - or to either side, if you're feeling adventorous. as opposed to a mouse, which needs space to move around. 
This really depends on how far you place your hands apart, but for me, there's enough space in between to comfortably move the mouse around, so there's absolutely no problem. 
For me it's just that i already had a mouse and continue to use it, but in my opinion both should work really fine. 
Ok, this really depends on what you normally do and what kind of input devices you use on a daily basis, but i still use a numpad and a fairly big drawing tablet if i'm working in blender or when i'm drawing. This might not work for everyone, but i normally place the numpad to the left instead of the right, so that i can have one hand remain on the mouse and one hand switch between the moonlander and the numpad. 
When using the drawing tablet, i put the right half and mouse away and use the buttons on the tablet and the left half of the moonlander. This is just what works for me, and thankfully i have a big enough desk to move everything around as needed. I'm really grateful for that.

- Blender and the moonlander
Let's talk a little about Blender. I need to admit, i still haven't found a solution for using Blender. And sadly, my blender usage has significantly decreased since i got this new keyboard. Because the key layout is customizable, i planned on mapping a dedicated layer with just shortcuts for Blender, but leave as many keys as possible where they would normally sit in a regular qwerty layout. Initially i wanted to map my most used shortcuts onto the left half to be free to use my mouse with my right hand, but i've really been procrastinating on that. Yep. There were some attempts, for example i tried to remap the coordinates to be next to each other, but with y down on the c button, i could no longer use c for sculpting, so i tried to remap that. Similar story with s, r and g, which i wanted next to each other. Because these shortcuts are used so often, so i replaced a and d but could no longer add new things or duplicate. So, long story short, this is not as easy as anticipated and i might need to have a look at existing layouts and maybe modify one of those. Maybe there's a solution with modifier keys or holding a button instead of tapping it, but for now, i still just use the buttons on the right side. Muscle memory is one hell of a bitch. 

- Sculpted keycaps
Let's talk about keycaps again. I use the sculpted keycaps that came with the moonlander, so let me show you a side profile. A friend of mine, who owns both the flat and sculpted keycaps that are delivered by ZSA was kind enough to let me use his set for filming, and here you can see the difference in heights. There's really not that much of a difference, but i personally like the slight curve they give you.

- traveling with the board
Do you travel with the board? Yes, i do. I use it both for work and in my free time, and sometimes i take it with me to work from different places. My experience with traveling was great so far. The first few times i really took the time to loosen up all 4 screws and to flatten the board, which, in hindsight was not really necessary. When travelling now, i only loosen up the thumb parts but leave the little legs in their tented position. Leaving the legs makes it easier to find the right position again when setting it up again, so here's a little way to save some time. In theory, i guess you could also leave the thumb parts as they are - it definitely fits into the case with my normal degree of tenting, but with all the other things i'm carrying in my backpack, it will flatten out when traveling and i'm afraid this might loosen up the whole board over time. 
There's another travel hack i wanted to share with you: According to a reddit comment i found a while ago, the amazon basics go pro hard case is the perfect size for holding your moonlander. I haven't tried this, but if you did, please let me know if this works!

- alternative boards
Needless to say, at a pricepoint of roughly 370 Euros and a similar amount of american money the moonlander really is an investment. But after 3 months of constantly using it, i couldn't be happier. So in my case, i really think the investment was worth it. But i know that this is not affordable for everyone, and there ARE similar and cheaper keyboards available. I don't want to get into details here, there are many great boards out there, but i don't own any of them, so i will leave the journey to finding your favorite to you. 

Ok, that's it for now, I hope you have found the answers you were looking for, but if you wanna know more, check out my first impressions of the moonlander and have a nice day!

