Hi Guys! 
If you're new to this channel, my name's taire which my friends pronounce as tuere, which simply means door in german. 
Over the past few years, since i claimed this name for myself, people have been pronouncing taire in hilarious ways. Add yours in the comments, i hunger for more. 
So, ok, but you wanna know what it means, and why someone would deal with the burden that comes with such a name? Worry no longer, dear child, the answer is nigh. 
It all started when i, young, smol and 16 years old, came across Les Miserables. You might know it from the 2012 film version, the musical, the songs, the wayyy too detailed book by Victor Hugo, 
or from me, because i would not stop talking about it. Like, at all. i even wore a selfmade cocarde to school and started dressing like it was 1832. I was the weird kid that wore cravats to school just for fun. 
What i really like about Les Mis is one of the many subplots, the one with the barricade boys. Quick wrap-up: France just discovered their love for revolutions, as you might remember from this thing that started at the bastille and ended with Marie Antoinette.
People were not quite sure whether they wanted to be ruled by a monarchy or not, so there was some back and forth in between, including napoleon. 
So in 1830, after some more revolts, people got a new king, who was, according to Les Mis, "not better than the last". So, what did people do? They dusted off their pitch forks and got to work.
Organizing an underground revolution is not really hard when you've done it before, and France really had experience at this point. 
So, that's where we're at: 1832, Paris, at a cafe called Musain, among students discussing politics and sniffing Cosettes handkerchiefs. 
The group, which is nowadays known as the barricade boys or les amis, has a charismatic leader, beautiful, cunning, sophisticated, representing the logic of the revolution. His name, Enjolras. 
Then there also was - his counterpart. Always drunk, always flirting, not interested in politics, but always ready to fight. 
He was called, Grantaire. When signing papers, he mostly shortened his name to a grand R, a big R. 

You might already guess where this is going. Smol me felt really drawn towards Grantaire, mostly because of his unspoken love and appreciation towards Enjolras. Maybe his signs of a major depression might have played a role. But who am i to judge, mental health did not exist back then. 
Around the same time, i started to explore the different letters of LGBTQIAAPP+, so i changed some of my online usernames to pan-taire. Some of which still exist. 
Some got shortened to taire over time, because people kept asking how to pronounce it. 
Which was ok, because it gave me an excuse to talk about Les Mis, but some people told me to shut up, which is incidentally also what "se taire" means in french. Don't blame me, i didn't take french classes in school and Duolingo only gets you so far.
But, as goes with all nicknames, people who like you are constantly looking for different names to call you, so i somehow ended up with tuere. 
Which is fine for me, and i think, the real Grantaire would appreciate too. 

Ok, now you know the origin of my name and a liiiittle part of les Mis, i hope you enjoyed this video! Consider subscribing and let me know how much you like Les Mis in the comments - also, this is my first ever animation, so i would like to apologize for the wonky drawings. 
Keep your heads away from gui- guy- goui- uhm... SHARP OBJECTS and have a wonderful day, mon ami. 

Yours truly, taire.
