Let's make a short film together, shall we? Ok, great. To start this project, we first need an idea. So, let's browse the internet and let's say we stumble upon a writing prompt and a short story someone has written based on that prompt, several years ago, on tumblr. When I read this,  i felt a strong spark of inspiration, so i pinned the post and went on living my live.
All of this happened a year ago, but I kept thinking about this post and dreamt about telling the story of this post in the form of a film. My very own, first selfmade 3D animated short film. 
My name is taire and i'm finally making a shortfilm. If you like, you can join me in the process! I'd be happy to have you on board. 
Great, we're making a short film. We've got the idea, now let's think about how we will tackle the project. I started with a list of all the steps we need to do and another list of all the props and files I think I will need. I spent some time researching how other people have tackled projects like this and stumbled upon some great artists on youtube - I've learned so much about film making and the process behind, since sadly, i did not go to art school. Everything about this project will be learned along the way, so let's try to get there together - feel free to follow along, if you want! I've tried to estimate the time needed for each step, So anywhere between one month and two years from now, the film should be finished! Yay!
When making a film, you might want to start with a story board. This will help you lay out all the scenes and rough camera positions in advance so you can get a better feeling what you will see in the final product. This means drawing each scene, each camera setting, which you can see me do here! When i was finished, i had the first approximate overview over all the scenes in the film i'm going to make. I paired these film stills up with a quick voice over of all the dialogue, to get a better feeling of the overall length of the finished film. Spoiler: The short film i'm working on will be around 1:30. If you'd like to see more, feel free to follow along!
Let me take you on the journey of producing a short film! Last time, we got done with our story board, so let's add a little colour, shall we? This film is taking place on both an alien spaceship and in outer space. So i really want the overall vibe of the film to capture the contrast between those two environments. I pulled out the story board we did last time, and started coloring the rough shapes to get a better idea of the colors.
I'm making a short film about an alien starship in outer space, so let's design some aliens! As always, we're gonna head over to pinterest and look up inspiration. I really got stuck on this picture, and really love their style and how they have tentactles for hair, but i don't really like how they're so distinctly male and female coded. So i started designing a more androgynous version of them, experimented with colour schemes i liked and painted them in a front and side view to make it easier to bring into a 3D space later on. Follow along for more! 