Hey guys! 
If you're new here, my name is taire and i like to create digital art in 3D, but also in 2D. Ok, now you know me, we're besties now,you're part of the family.
As you might have noticed, my channel has recently reached 100 subscribers (yay sound effect)

To everyone who's been here a while or just happened to click on this video: I want to use this opportunity to thank all of you for staying with me. It really means a lot that people out there want to watch my videos and want to see what i create. 
In the internet, 100 people is not that much, but if i was giving art classes or doing exhibitions in real life, being visited by 100 people and having 100 fans really would be overwhelming.
So to celebrate this milestone, i made this little youtube playbutton award for myself. Love yourself first, no one else will. I modeled it in Blender, lost the footage of the process, made a little animation, nearly lost the animation too, decided to 3D print it, prepared it for printing, filmed it while printing, then decided 

So i figured it's time to talk a little about where this channel is going and what you can expect for the future. If you're only here for the background timelapse, there's some 3D printer content for you. 


You probably know the silver and gold awards YouTube sends its creators, but for numbers lower than 100.000, you have to get creative yourself - so that's what i did. I decided to model my very own little award in Blender and made this little animation before printing it out.
For the design, i strongly leaned on the Youtube Diamond award, because i thought a low poly award would be fitting for this milestone. 
Ok, back to the printing process. 

But let's talk about where this channel is going:
As you might have notices, i've been more busy on Instagram instead of Youtube, because editing videos takes so much time. If you've never done it, try it and tell me otherwise. But being inactive is one of the things i want to change. 
In the last few months, i was really struggling with finishing art projects, struggling with perfectionism, comparing myself to other and, oh boy, Instagram did NOT help with that. At all. Also, when it came to Blender, my skills were on the floor and my expectations towards myself were this high. When i started, I wanted to focus on modeling characters, animating them, and making tutorials about the process, sharing tips and tricks with you to uplift you. But, what i forgot, learning does look ugly sometimes. And filming your progress when learning with the intention to share it with other people is doomed to fail from the start. Because with this mindset, you only focus on doing it pretty, instead of learning it efficiently. And this does not give you enough knowledge to create tutorials to teach other people. 
So, learning by doing is great, but learning to post is not so great - I noticed this, and i'm going to fix it. 

I definitely want to keep on learning more, developing my skills in Blender and digital art in general and help you do the same through the content i create. 
Besides changing my mindset like i just said, there are two things I want to change, which will make this channel better (at least so i think):
The first one applies to future Blender videos:
I want to add screencast keys in all of my Blender videos in the future so you guys can see what keys i'm pressing. 
Explaining every single shortcut would take way too long, and let's be honest, there already are a whole lot of tutorials out there explaining the core fundamentals of the GUI. 
Most of which are more efficient than me, i admit. By doing so, i hope to make my videos more beginner friendly. 
Second, i want to talk more. In the very beginning, i didn't add voice overs to my videos, because i just wanted to produce as many videos as possible, but i realized that this extra effort just adds a whole new dimension to a video. 
I don't know yet what to do with simple timelapses, because i myself enjoy watching chill content without someone talking, which sometimes feels a little forced. 
Simply put: If i feel that talking adds value to the video, i will do it. If it doesn't, enjoy some royalty free music, handpicked by myself.

As for the content: I'm still searching for a niche that fits all the things i'd like to show you. I doubt it really exists. So instead of narrowing it down to only Blender or only Krita, 

Ok, so these are my ideas, but there are some things that i cannot answer yet. Most of this depends on where my interests will develop in the future. Because i'm just a girl with a computer and a camera, not an entire social media team. 
Maybe i'm getting really into retopologizing, maybe this channel will be all about developing concept art of landscapes, 
maybe i will start to develop video games and begin to create my own sprites or game assets. 
But whatever it will be, and wherever this channel will go, i'd be happy to have you by my side. And if you're new, i welcome you as a friend and i hope that you will find something you like around here. 
Let's create the future of this channel together. I'm excited and i hope, that you will find as much joy in watching my videos as i find in creating them.
Have a nice day.